TITLE: PDBe: improved accessibility of macromolecular structure data from PDB and EMDB
 
The Protein Data Bank in Europe (http://pdbe.org) accepts and annotates depositions of macromolecular structure data in the PDB and EMDB archives and enriches, integrates and disseminates structural information in a variety of ways. The PDBe website has been redesigned based on an analysis of user requirements, and now offers intuitive access to improved and value-added macromolecular structure information. Unique value-added information includes lists of reviews and research articles that cite or mention PDB entries as well as access to figures and legends from full-text open-access publications that describe PDB entries. A powerful new query system not only shows all the PDB entries that match a given query, but also shows the ‘best structures’ for a given macromolecule, ligand complex or sequence family using data-quality information from the wwPDB validation reports. A PDBe RESTful API has been developed to provide unified access to macromolecular structure data available in the PDB and EMDB archives as well as value-added annotations, e.g. regarding structure quality and up-to-date cross-reference information from the SIFTS resource. Taken together, these new developments facilitate unified access to macromolecular structure data in an intuitive way for non-expert users and support expert users in analysing macromolecular structure data.

AUTHORS:

Sameer Velankar
Glen van Ginkel
Younes Alhroub
Gary M. Battle
John M. Berrisford
Matthew J. Conroy
Jose M. Dana
Swanand P. Gore
Aleksandras Gutmanas
Pauline Haslam
Pieter M. S. Hendrickx
Ingvar Lagerstedt
Saqib Mir
Manuel A. Fernandez Montecelo
Abhik Mukhopadhyay
Thomas J. Oldfield
Ardan Patwardhan
Eduardo Sanz-García
Sanchayita Sen
Robert A. Slowley
Michael E. Wainwright
Mandar S. Deshpande
Andrii Iudin
Gaurav Sahni
Jose Salavert Torres
Miriam Hirshberg
Lora Mak
Nurul Nadzirin
David R. Armstrong
Alice R. Clark
Oliver S. Smart
Paul K. Korir
Gerard J. Kleywegt

KEYWORDS:

ligands
molecular structure
macromolecule
protein data bank
molecule