TITLE: Reference sequence (RefSeq) database at NCBI: current status, taxonomic expansion, and functional annotation
 
The RefSeq project at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) maintains and curates a publicly available database of annotated genomic, transcript, and protein sequence records (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/refseq/). The RefSeq project leverages the data submitted to the International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration (INSDC) against a combination of computation, manual curation, and collaboration to produce a standard set of stable, non-redundant reference sequences. The RefSeq project augments these reference sequences with current knowledge including publications, functional features and informative nomenclature. The database currently represents sequences from more than 55 000 organisms (>4800 viruses, >40 000 prokaryotes and >10 000 eukaryotes; RefSeq release 71), ranging from a single record to complete genomes. This paper summarizes the current status of the viral, prokaryotic, and eukaryotic branches of the RefSeq project, reports on improvements to data access and details efforts to further expand the taxonomic representation of the collection. We also highlight diverse functional curation initiatives that support multiple uses of RefSeq data including taxonomic validation, genome annotation, comparative genomics, and clinical testing. We summarize our approach to utilizing available RNA-Seq and other data types in our manual curation process for vertebrate, plant, and other species, and describe a new direction for prokaryotic genomes and protein name management.

AUTHORS:

Nuala A. O'Leary
Mathew W. Wright
J. Rodney Brister
Stacy Ciufo
Diana Haddad
Rich McVeigh
Bhanu Rajput
Barbara Robbertse
Brian Smith-White
Danso Ako-Adjei
Alexander Astashyn
Azat Badretdin
Yiming Bao
Olga Blinkova
Vyacheslav Brover
Vyacheslav Chetvernin
Jinna Choi
Eric Cox
Olga Ermolaeva
Catherine M. Farrell
Tamara Goldfarb
Tripti Gupta
Daniel Haft
Eneida Hatcher
Wratko Hlavina
Vinita S. Joardar
Vamsi K. Kodali
Wenjun Li
Donna Maglott
Patrick Masterson
Kelly M. McGarvey
Michael R. Murphy
Kathleen O'Neill
Shashikant Pujar
Sanjida H. Rangwala
Daniel Rausch
Lillian D. Riddick
Conrad Schoch
Andrei Shkeda
Susan S. Storz
Hanzhen Sun
Francoise Thibaud-Nissen
Igor Tolstoy
Raymond E. Tully
Anjana R. Vatsan
Craig Wallin
David Webb
Wendy Wu
Melissa J. Landrum
Avi Kimchi
Tatiana Tatusova
Michael DiCuccio
Paul Kitts
Terence D. Murphy
Kim D. Pruitt

KEYWORDS:

amino acid sequence
eukaryotic cells
genes
genome
genomics
united states national institutes of health
national library of medicine (u.s.)
plants
prokaryotic cells
vertebrates
viruses
rna
datasets