TITLE: RegulonDB v8.0: omics data sets, evolutionary conservation, regulatory phrases, cross-validated gold standards and more
 
This article summarizes our progress with RegulonDB (http://regulondb.ccg.unam.mx/) during the past 2 years. We have kept up-to-date the knowledge from the published literature regarding transcriptional regulation in Escherichia coli K-12. We have maintained and expanded our curation efforts to improve the breadth and quality of the encoded experimental knowledge, and we have implemented criteria for the quality of our computational predictions. Regulatory phrases now provide high-level descriptions of regulatory regions. We expanded the assignment of quality to various sources of evidence, particularly for knowledge generated through high-throughput (HT) technology. Based on our analysis of most relevant methods, we defined rules for determining the quality of evidence when multiple independent sources support an entry. With this latest release of RegulonDB, we present a new highly reliable larger collection of transcription start sites, a result of our experimental HT genome-wide efforts. These improvements, together with several novel enhancements (the tracks display, uploading format and curational guidelines), address the challenges of incorporating HT-generated knowledge into RegulonDB. Information on the evolutionary conservation of regulatory elements is also available now. Altogether, RegulonDB version 8.0 is a much better home for integrating knowledge on gene regulation from the sources of information currently available.

AUTHORS:

Heladia Salgado
Martin Peralta-Gil
Socorro Gama-Castro
Alberto Santos-Zavaleta
Luis Muñiz-Rascado
Jair S. García-Sotelo
Verena Weiss
Hilda Solano-Lira
Irma Martínez-Flores
Alejandra Medina-Rivera
Gerardo Salgado-Osorio
Shirley Alquicira-Hernández
Kevin Alquicira-Hernández
Alejandra López-Fuentes
Liliana Porrón-Sotelo
Araceli M. Huerta
César Bonavides-Martínez
Yalbi I. Balderas-Martínez
Lucia Pannier
Maricela Olvera
Aurora Labastida
Verónica Jiménez-Jacinto
Leticia Vega-Alvarado
Victor del Moral-Chávez
Alfredo Hernández-Alvarez
Enrique Morett
Julio Collado-Vides

KEYWORDS:

gene expression regulation
genes
genome
oncogenes
regulatory sequences, nucleic acid
regulon
transcription initiation site
guidelines
rna
escherichia coli
transcriptional control
gold standard
datasets