TITLE: The Protist Ribosomal Reference database (PR2): a catalog of unicellular eukaryote Small Sub-Unit rRNA sequences with curated taxonomy
 
The interrogation of genetic markers in environmental meta-barcoding studies is currently seriously hindered by the lack of taxonomically curated reference data sets for the targeted genes. The Protist Ribosomal Reference database (PR2, http://ssu-rrna.org/) provides a unique access to eukaryotic small sub-unit (SSU) ribosomal RNA and DNA sequences, with curated taxonomy. The database mainly consists of nuclear-encoded protistan sequences. However, metazoans, land plants, macrosporic fungi and eukaryotic organelles (mitochondrion, plastid and others) are also included because they are useful for the analysis of high-troughput sequencing data sets. Introns and putative chimeric sequences have been also carefully checked. Taxonomic assignation of sequences consists of eight unique taxonomic fields. In total, 136 866 sequences are nuclear encoded, 45 708 (36 501 mitochondrial and 9657 chloroplastic) are from organelles, the remaining being putative chimeric sequences. The website allows the users to download sequences from the entire and partial databases (including representative sequences after clustering at a given level of similarity). Different web tools also allow searches by sequence similarity. The presence of both rRNA and rDNA sequences, taking into account introns (crucial for eukaryotic sequences), a normalized eight terms ranked-taxonomy and updates of new GenBank releases were made possible by a long-term collaboration between experts in taxonomy and computer scientists.

AUTHORS:

Laure Guillou
Dipankar Bachar
Stéphane Audic
David Bass
Cédric Berney
Lucie Bittner
Christophe Boutte
Gaétan Burgaud
Colomban de Vargas
Johan Decelle
Javier del Campo
John R. Dolan
Micah Dunthorn
Bente Edvardsen
Maria Holzmann
Wiebe H.C.F. Kooistra
Enrique Lara
Noan Le Bescot
Ramiro Logares
Frédéric Mahé
Ramon Massana
Marina Montresor
Raphael Morard
Fabrice Not
Jan Pawlowski
Ian Probert
Anne-Laure Sauvadet
Raffaele Siano
Thorsten Stoeck
Daniel Vaulot
Pascal Zimmermann
Richard Christen

KEYWORDS:

mitochondria
chimera organism
recombinant dna
dna, ribosomal
eukaryotic cells
genes
introns
organelles
plants
ribosomes
ribosomal rna
taxonomic classification
fungus
datasets