TITLE: DisProt 7.0: a major update of the database of disordered proteins
 
The Database of Protein Disorder (DisProt, URL: www.disprot.org) has been significantly updated and upgraded since its last major renewal in 2007. The current release holds information on more than 800 entries of IDPs/IDRs, i.e. intrinsically disordered proteins or regions that exist and function without a well-defined three-dimensional structure. We have re-curated previous entries to purge DisProt from conflicting cases, and also upgraded the functional classification scheme to reflect continuous advance in the field in the past 10 years or so. We define IDPs as proteins that are disordered along their entire sequence, i.e. entirely lack structural elements, and IDRs as regions that are at least five consecutive residues without well-defined structure. We base our assessment of disorder strictly on experimental evidence, such as X-ray crystallography and nuclear magnetic resonance (primary techniques) and a broad range of other experimental approaches (secondary techniques). Confident and ambiguous annotations are highlighted separately. DisProt 7.0 presents classified knowledge regarding the experimental characterization and functional annotations of IDPs/IDRs, and is intended to provide an invaluable resource for the research community for a better understanding structural disorder and for developing better computational tools for studying disordered proteins.

AUTHORS:

Damiano Piovesan
Francesco Tabaro
Ivan Mičetić
Marco Necci
Federica Quaglia
Christopher J. Oldfield
Maria Cristina Aspromonte
Norman E. Davey
Radoslav Davidović
Zsuzsanna Dosztányi
Arne Elofsson
Alessandra Gasparini
András Hatos
Andrey V. Kajava
Lajos Kalmar
Emanuela Leonardi
Tamas Lazar
Sandra Macedo-Ribeiro
Mauricio Macossay-Castillo
Attila Meszaros
Giovanni Minervini
Nikoletta Murvai
Jordi Pujols
Daniel B. Roche
Edoardo Salladini
Eva Schad
Antoine Schramm
Beata Szabo
Agnes Tantos
Fiorella Tonello
Konstantinos D. Tsirigos
Nevena Veljković
Salvador Ventura
Wim Vranken
Per Warholm
Vladimir N. Uversky
A. Keith Dunker
Sonia Longhi
Peter Tompa
Silvio C.E. Tosatto

KEYWORDS:

nuclear magnetic resonance
x-ray crystallography
community