TITLE: EuPathDB: the eukaryotic pathogen genomics database resource
 
The Eukaryotic Pathogen Genomics Database Resource (EuPathDB, http://eupathdb.org) is a collection of databases covering 170+ eukaryotic pathogens (protists & fungi), along with relevant free-living and non-pathogenic species, and select pathogen hosts. To facilitate the discovery of meaningful biological relationships, the databases couple preconfigured searches with visualization and analysis tools for comprehensive data mining via intuitive graphical interfaces and APIs. All data are analyzed with the same workflows, including creation of gene orthology profiles, so data are easily compared across data sets, data types and organisms. EuPathDB is updated with numerous new analysis tools, features, data sets and data types. New tools include GO, metabolic pathway and word enrichment analyses plus an online workspace for analysis of personal, non-public, large-scale data. Expanded data content is mostly genomic and functional genomic data while new data types include protein microarray, metabolic pathways, compounds, quantitative proteomics, copy number variation, and polysomal transcriptomics. New features include consistent categorization of searches, data sets and genome browser tracks; redesigned gene pages; effective integration of alternative transcripts; and a EuPathDB Galaxy instance for private analyses of a user's data. Forthcoming upgrades include user workspaces for private integration of data with existing EuPathDB data and improved integration and presentation of host–pathogen interactions.

AUTHORS:

Cristina Aurrecoechea
Ana Barreto
Evelina Y. Basenko
John Brestelli
Brian P. Brunk
Shon Cade
Kathryn Crouch
Ryan Doherty
Dave Falke
Steve Fischer
Bindu Gajria
Omar S. Harb
Mark Heiges
Christiane Hertz-Fowler
Sufen Hu
John Iodice
Jessica C. Kissinger
Cris Lawrence
Wei Li
Deborah F. Pinney
Jane A. Pulman
David S. Roos
Achchuthan Shanmugasundram
Fatima Silva-Franco
Sascha Steinbiss
Christian J. Stoeckert, Jr
Drew Spruill
Haiming Wang
Susanne Warrenfeltz
Jie Zheng

KEYWORDS:

genes
genome
genomics
fungus
pathogenic organism
proteomics
protists
pathogenicity
data mining
workflow
protein microarrays
copy number polymorphism
host (organism)
host-pathogen interactions
datasets