TITLE: Improvements to PATRIC, the all-bacterial Bioinformatics Database and Analysis Resource Center
 
The Pathosystems Resource Integration Center (PATRIC) is the bacterial Bioinformatics Resource Center (https://www.patricbrc.org). Recent changes to PATRIC include a redesign of the web interface and some new services that provide users with a platform that takes them from raw reads to an integrated analysis experience. The redesigned interface allows researchers direct access to tools and data, and the emphasis has changed to user-created genome-groups, with detailed summaries and views of the data that researchers have selected. Perhaps the biggest change has been the enhanced capability for researchers to analyze their private data and compare it to the available public data. Researchers can assemble their raw sequence reads and annotate the contigs using RASTtk. PATRIC also provides services for RNA-Seq, variation, model reconstruction and differential expression analysis, all delivered through an updated private workspace. Private data can be compared by ‘virtual integration’ to any of PATRIC's public data. The number of genomes available for comparison in PATRIC has expanded to over 80 000, with a special emphasis on genomes with antimicrobial resistance data. PATRIC uses this data to improve both subsystem annotation and k-mer classification, and tags new genomes as having signatures that indicate susceptibility or resistance to specific antibiotics.

AUTHORS:

Alice R. Wattam
James J. Davis
Rida Assaf
Sébastien Boisvert
Thomas Brettin
Christopher Bun
Neal Conrad
Emily M. Dietrich
Terry Disz
Joseph L. Gabbard
Svetlana Gerdes
Christopher S. Henry
Ronald W. Kenyon
Dustin Machi
Chunhong Mao
Eric K. Nordberg
Gary J. Olsen
Daniel E. Murphy-Olson
Robert Olson
Ross Overbeek
Bruce Parrello
Gordon D. Pusch
Maulik Shukla
Veronika Vonstein
Andrew Warren
Fangfang Xia
Hyunseung Yoo
Rick L. Stevens

KEYWORDS:

antibiotics
drug resistance, microbial
genome
reconstructive surgical procedures
rna
bioinformatics