TITLE: A series of PDB-related databanks for everyday needs
 
We present a series of databanks (http://swift.cmbi.ru.nl/gv/facilities/) that hold information that is computationally derived from Protein Data Bank (PDB) entries and that might augment macromolecular structure studies. These derived databanks run parallel to the PDB, i.e. they have one entry per PDB entry. Several of the well-established databanks such as HSSP, PDBREPORT and PDB_REDO have been updated and/or improved. The software that creates the DSSP databank, for example, has been rewritten to better cope with π-helices. A large number of databanks have been added to aid computational structural biology; some examples are lists of residues that make crystal contacts, lists of contacting residues using a series of contact definitions or lists of residue accessibilities. PDB files are not the optimal presentation of the underlying data for many studies. We therefore made a series of databanks that hold PDB files in an easier to use or more consistent representation. The BDB databank holds X-ray PDB files with consistently represented B-factors. We also added several visualization tools to aid the users of our databanks.

AUTHORS:

Wouter G. Touw
Coos Baakman
Jon Black
Tim A. H. te Beek
E. Krieger
Robbie P. Joosten
Gert Vriend

KEYWORDS:

diagnostic radiologic examination
roentgen rays
databases
molecular structure
software
protein data bank
crystal structure
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression