TITLE: The InterPro protein families database: the classification resource after 15 years
 
The InterPro database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/) is a freely available resource that can be used to classify sequences into protein families and to predict the presence of important domains and sites. Central to the InterPro database are predictive models, known as signatures, from a range of different protein family databases that have different biological focuses and use different methodological approaches to classify protein families and domains. InterPro integrates these signatures, capitalizing on the respective strengths of the individual databases, to produce a powerful protein classification resource. Here, we report on the status of InterPro as it enters its 15th year of operation, and give an overview of new developments with the database and its associated Web interfaces and software. In particular, the new domain architecture search tool is described and the process of mapping of Gene Ontology terms to InterPro is outlined. We also discuss the challenges faced by the resource given the explosive growth in sequence data in recent years. InterPro (version 48.0) contains 36 766 member database signatures integrated into 26 238 InterPro entries, an increase of over 3993 entries (5081 signatures), since 2012.

AUTHORS:

Alex Mitchell
Hsin-Yu Chang
Louise Daugherty
Matthew Fraser
Sarah Hunter
Rodrigo Lopez
Craig McAnulla
Conor McMenamin
Gift Nuka
Sebastien Pesseat
Amaia Sangrador-Vegas
Maxim Scheremetjew
Claudia Rato
Siew-Yit Yong
Alex Bateman
Marco Punta
Teresa K. Attwood
Christian J.A. Sigrist
Nicole Redaschi
Catherine Rivoire
Ioannis Xenarios
Daniel Kahn
Dominique Guyot
Peer Bork
Ivica Letunic
Julian Gough
Matt Oates
Daniel Haft
Hongzhan Huang
Darren A. Natale
Cathy H. Wu
Christine Orengo
Ian Sillitoe
Huaiyu Mi
Paul D. Thomas
Robert D. Finn

KEYWORDS:

Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression