TITLE: AHTPDB: a comprehensive platform for analysis and presentation of antihypertensive peptides
 
AHTPDB (http://crdd.osdd.net/raghava/ahtpdb/) is a manually curated database of experimentally validated antihypertensive peptides. Information pertaining to peptides with antihypertensive activity was collected from research articles and from various peptide repositories. These peptides were derived from 35 major sources that include milk, egg, fish, pork, chicken, soybean, etc. In AHTPDB, most of the peptides belong to a family of angiotensin-I converting enzyme inhibiting peptides. The current release of AHTPDB contains 5978 peptide entries among which 1694 are unique peptides. Each entry provides detailed information about a peptide like sequence, inhibitory concentration (IC50), toxicity/bitterness value, source, length, molecular mass and information related to purification of peptides. In addition, the database provides structural information of these peptides that includes predicted tertiary and secondary structures. A user-friendly web interface with various tools has been developed to retrieve and analyse the data. It is anticipated that AHTPDB will be a useful and unique resource for the researchers working in the field of antihypertensive peptides.

AUTHORS:

Ravi Kumar
Kumardeep Chaudhary
Minakshi Sharma
Gandharva Nagpal
Jagat Singh Chauhan
Sandeep Singh
Ankur Gautam
Gajendra P.S. Raghava

KEYWORDS:

Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression