TITLE: miRDB: an online resource for microRNA target prediction and functional annotations
 
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that are extensively involved in many physiological and disease processes. One major challenge in miRNA studies is the identification of genes regulated by miRNAs. To this end, we have developed an online resource, miRDB (http://mirdb.org), for miRNA target prediction and functional annotations. Here, we describe recently updated features of miRDB, including 2.1 million predicted gene targets regulated by 6709 miRNAs. In addition to presenting precompiled prediction data, a new feature is the web server interface that allows submission of user-provided sequences for miRNA target prediction. In this way, users have the flexibility to study any custom miRNAs or target genes of interest. Another major update of miRDB is related to functional miRNA annotations. Although thousands of miRNAs have been identified, many of the reported miRNAs are not likely to play active functional roles or may even have been falsely identified as miRNAs from high-throughput studies. To address this issue, we have performed combined computational analyses and literature mining, and identified 568 and 452 functional miRNAs in humans and mice, respectively. These miRNAs, as well as associated functional annotations, are presented in the FuncMir Collection in miRDB.

AUTHORS:

Nathan Wong
Xiaowei Wang

KEYWORDS:

internet
micrornas
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression