TITLE: The Rat Genome Database 2015: genomic, phenotypic and environmental variations and disease
 
The Rat Genome Database (RGD, http://rgd.mcw.edu) provides the most comprehensive data repository and informatics platform related to the laboratory rat, one of the most important model organisms for disease studies. RGD maintains and updates datasets for genomic elements such as genes, transcripts and increasingly in recent years, sequence variations, as well as map positions for multiple assemblies and sequence information. Functional annotations for genomic elements are curated from published literature, submitted by researchers and integrated from other public resources. Complementing the genomic data catalogs are those associated with phenotypes and disease, including strains, QTL and experimental phenotype measurements across hundreds of strains. Data are submitted by researchers, acquired through bulk data pipelines or curated from published literature. Innovative software tools provide users with an integrated platform to query, mine, display and analyze valuable genomic and phenomic datasets for discovery and enhancement of their own research. This update highlights recent developments that reflect an increasing focus on: (i) genomic variation, (ii) phenotypes and diseases, (iii) data related to the environment and experimental conditions and (iv) datasets and software tools that allow the user to explore and analyze the interactions among these and their impact on disease.

AUTHORS:

Mary Shimoyama
Jeff De Pons
G. Thomas Hayman
Stanley J.F. Laulederkind
Weisong Liu
Rajni Nigam
Victoria Petri
Jennifer R. Smith
Marek Tutaj
Shur-Jen Wang
Elizabeth Worthey
Melinda Dwinell
Howard Jacob

KEYWORDS:

phenotype
genes
genome
software
rats
quantitative trait loci
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression