TITLE: VaDE: a manually curated database of reproducible associations between various traits and human genomic polymorphisms
 
Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified numerous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with the development of common diseases. However, it is clear that genetic risk factors of common diseases are heterogeneous among human populations. Therefore, we developed a database of genomic polymorphisms that are reproducibly associated with disease susceptibilities, drug responses and other traits for each human population: ‘VarySysDB Disease Edition’ (VaDE; http://bmi-tokai.jp/VaDE/). SNP-trait association data were obtained from the National Human Genome Research Institute GWAS (NHGRI GWAS) catalog and RAvariome, and we added detailed information of sample populations by curating original papers. In addition, we collected and curated original papers, and registered the detailed information of SNP-trait associations in VaDE. Then, we evaluated reproducibility of associations in each population by counting the number of significantly associated studies. VaDE provides literature-based SNP-trait association data and functional genomic region annotation for SNP functional research. SNP functional annotation data included experimental data of the ENCODE project, H-InvDB transcripts and the 1000 Genome Project. A user-friendly web interface was developed to assist quick search, easy download and fast swapping among viewers. We believe that our database will contribute to the future establishment of personalized medicine and increase our understanding of genetic factors underlying diseases.

AUTHORS:

Yoko Nagai
Yasuko Takahashi
Tadashi Imanishi

KEYWORDS:

polymorphism
heterogeneity
genome
genome, human
single nucleotide polymorphism
genetic risk
genome-wide association study
encode consortium
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression