TITLE: Helminth.net: expansions to Nematode.net and an introduction to Trematode.net
 
Helminth.net (http://www.helminth.net) is the new moniker for a collection of databases: Nematode.net and Trematode.net. Within this collection we provide services and resources for parasitic roundworms (nematodes) and flatworms (trematodes), collectively known as helminths. For over a decade we have provided resources for studying nematodes via our veteran site Nematode.net (http://nematode.net). In this article, (i) we provide an update on the expansions of Nematode.net that hosts omics data from 84 species and provides advanced search tools to the broad scientific community so that data can be mined in a useful and user-friendly manner and (ii) we introduce Trematode.net, a site dedicated to the dissemination of data from flukes, flatworm parasites of the class Trematoda, phylum Platyhelminthes. Trematode.net is an independent component of Helminth.net and currently hosts data from 16 species, with information ranging from genomic, functional genomic data, enzymatic pathway utilization to microbiome changes associated with helminth infections. The databases’ interface, with a sophisticated query engine as a backbone, is intended to allow users to search for multi-factorial combinations of species’ omics properties. This report describes updates to Nematode.net since its last description in NAR, 2012, and also introduces and presents its new sibling site, Trematode.net.

AUTHORS:

John Martin
Bruce A. Rosa
Philip Ozersky
Kymberlie Hallsworth-Pepin
Xu Zhang
Veena Bhonagiri-Palsikar
Rahul Tyagi
Qi Wang
Young-Jun Choi
Xin Gao
Samantha N. McNulty
Paul J. Brindley
Makedonka Mitreva

KEYWORDS:

genome
nematoda
parasites
trematoda
helminths
community
microbiome
host (organism)
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression