TITLE: Proteome TopFIND 3.0 with TopFINDer and PathFINDer: database and analysis tools for the association of protein termini to pre- and post-translational events
 
The knowledgebase TopFIND is an analysis platform focussed on protein termini, their origin, modification and hence their role on protein structure and function. Here, we present a major update to TopFIND, version 3, which includes a 70% increase in the underlying data to now cover a 90 696 proteins, 165 044 N-termini, 130 182 C-termini, 14 382 cleavage sites and 33 209 substrate cleavages in H. sapiens, M. musculus, A. thaliana, S. cerevisiae and E. coli. New features include the mapping of protein termini and cleavage entries across protein isoforms and significantly, the mapping of protein termini originating from alternative transcription and alternative translation start sites. Furthermore, two analysis tools for complex data analysis based on the TopFIND resource are now available online: TopFINDer, the TopFIND ExploRer, characterizes and annotates proteomics-derived N- or C-termini sets for their origin, sequence context and implications for protein structure and function. Neo-termini are also linked to associated proteases. PathFINDer identifies indirect connections between a protease and list of substrates or termini thus supporting the evaluation of complex proteolytic processes in vivo. To demonstrate the utility of the tools, a recent N-terminomics data set of inflamed murine skin has been re-analyzed. In re-capitulating the major findings originally performed manually, this validates the utility of these new resources. The point of entry for the resource is http://clipserve.clip.ubc.ca/topfind from where the graphical interface, all application programming interfaces (API) and the analysis tools are freely accessible.

AUTHORS:

Nikolaus Fortelny
Sharon Yang
Paul Pavlidis
Philipp F. Lange
Christopher M. Overall

KEYWORDS:

endopeptidases
protein isoforms
proteome
mice
skin
proteomics
proteolytic enzymes
cytokinesis
proteolysis
protein structure
knowledge bases
datasets
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression