TITLE: GRASP v2.0: an update on the Genome-Wide Repository of Associations between SNPs and phenotypes
 
Here, we present an update on the Genome-Wide Repository of Associations between SNPs and Phenotypes (GRASP) database version 2.0 (http://apps.nhlbi.nih.gov/Grasp/Overview.aspx). GRASP is a centralized repository of publically available genome-wide association study (GWAS) results. GRASP v2.0 contains ∼8.87 million SNP associations reported in 2082 studies, an increase of ∼2.59 million SNP associations (41.4% increase) and 693 studies (48.9% increase) from our previous version. Our goal in developing and maintaining GRASP is to provide a user-friendly means for diverse sets of researchers to query reported SNP associations (P ≤ 0.05) with human traits, including methylation and expression quantitative trait loci (QTL) studies. Therefore, in addition to making the full database available for download, we developed a user-friendly web interface that allows for direct querying of GRASP. We provide details on the use of this web interface and what information may be gleaned from using this interactive option. Additionally, we describe potential uses of GRASP and how the scientific community may benefit from the convenient availability of all SNP association results from GWAS (P ≤ 0.05). We plan to continue updating GRASP with newly published GWAS and increased annotation depth.

AUTHORS:

John D. Eicher
Christa Landowski
Brian Stackhouse
Arielle Sloan
Wenjie Chen
Nicole Jensen
Ju-Ping Lien
Richard Leslie
Andrew D. Johnson

KEYWORDS:

phenotype
genome
methylation
united states national institutes of health
single nucleotide polymorphism
community
genome-wide association study
quantitative trait loci
national heart, lung, and blood institute
mobile applications
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression