TITLE: The UCSC Genome Browser database: 2015 update
 
Launched in 2001 to showcase the draft human genome assembly, the UCSC Genome Browser database (http://genome.ucsc.edu) and associated tools continue to grow, providing a comprehensive resource of genome assemblies and annotations to scientists and students worldwide. Highlights of the past year include the release of a browser for the first new human genome reference assembly in 4 years in December 2013 (GRCh38, UCSC hg38), a watershed comparative genomics annotation (100-species multiple alignment and conservation) and a novel distribution mechanism for the browser (GBiB: Genome Browser in a Box). We created browsers for new species (Chinese hamster, elephant shark, minke whale), ‘mined the web’ for DNA sequences and expanded the browser display with stacked color graphs and region highlighting. As our user community increasingly adopts the UCSC track hub and assembly hub representations for sharing large-scale genomic annotation data sets and genome sequencing projects, our menu of public data hubs has tripled.

AUTHORS:

Kate R. Rosenbloom
Joel Armstrong
Galt P. Barber
Jonathan Casper
Hiram Clawson
Mark Diekhans
Timothy R. Dreszer
Pauline A. Fujita
Luvina Guruvadoo
Maximilian Haeussler
Rachel A. Harte
Steve Heitner
Glenn Hickey
Angie S. Hinrichs
Robert Hubley
Donna Karolchik
Katrina Learned
Brian T. Lee
Chin H. Li
Karen H. Miga
Ngan Nguyen
Benedict Paten
Brian J. Raney
Arian F. A. Smit
Matthew L. Speir
Ann S. Zweig
David Haussler
Robert M. Kuhn
W. James Kent

KEYWORDS:

Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression