TITLE: PyIgClassify: a database of antibody CDR structural classifications
 
Classification of the structures of the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of antibodies is critically important for antibody structure prediction and computational design. We have previously performed a clustering of antibody CDR conformations and defined a systematic nomenclature consisting of the CDR, length and an integer starting from the largest to the smallest cluster in the data set (e.g. L1-11-1). We present PyIgClassify (for Python-based immunoglobulin classification; available at http://dunbrack2.fccc.edu/pyigclassify/), a database and web server that provides access to assignments of all CDR structures in the PDB to our classification system. The database includes assignments to the IMGT germline V regions for heavy and light chains for several species. For humanized antibodies, the assignment of the frameworks is to human germlines and the CDRs to the germlines of mice or other species sources. The database can be searched by PDB entry, cluster identifier and IMGT germline group (e.g. human IGHV1). The entire database is downloadable so that users may filter the data as needed for antibody structure analysis, prediction and design.

AUTHORS:

Jared Adolf-Bryfogle
Qifang Xu
Benjamin North
Andreas Lehmann
Roland L. Dunbrack, Jr

KEYWORDS:

antibodies
mice
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression