TITLE: lncRNAdb v2.0: expanding the reference database for functional long noncoding RNAs
 
Despite the prevalence of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) genes in eukaryotic genomes, only a small proportion have been examined for biological function. lncRNAdb, available at http://lncrnadb.org, provides users with a comprehensive, manually curated reference database of 287 eukaryotic lncRNAs that have been described independently in the scientific literature. In addition to capturing a great proportion of the recent literature describing functions for individual lncRNAs, lncRNAdb now offers an improved user interface enabling greater accessibility to sequence information, expression data and the literature. The new features in lncRNAdb include the integration of Illumina Body Atlas expression profiles, nucleotide sequence information, a BLAST search tool and easy export of content via direct download or a REST API. lncRNAdb is now endorsed by RNAcentral and is in compliance with the International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration.

AUTHORS:

Xiu Cheng Quek
Daniel W. Thomson
Jesper L.V. Maag
Nenad Bartonicek
Bethany Signal
Michael B. Clark
Brian S. Gloss
Marcel E. Dinger

KEYWORDS:

base sequence
genes
genome
rna, untranslated
user-computer interface
rna
basic local alignment search tool
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression