TITLE: Genome3D: exploiting structure to help users understand their sequences
 
Genome3D (http://www.genome3d.eu) is a collaborative resource that provides predicted domain annotations and structural models for key sequences. Since introducing Genome3D in a previous NAR paper, we have substantially extended and improved the resource. We have annotated representatives from Pfam families to improve coverage of diverse sequences and added a fast sequence search to the website to allow users to find Genome3D-annotated sequences similar to their own. We have improved and extended the Genome3D data, enlarging the source data set from three model organisms to 10, and adding VIVACE, a resource new to Genome3D. We have analysed and updated Genome3D's SCOP/CATH mapping. Finally, we have improved the superposition tools, which now give users a more powerful interface for investigating similarities and differences between structural models.

AUTHORS:

Tony E. Lewis
Ian Sillitoe
Antonina Andreeva
Tom L. Blundell
Daniel W.A. Buchan
Cyrus Chothia
Domenico Cozzetto
José M. Dana
Ioannis Filippis
Julian Gough
David T. Jones
Lawrence A. Kelley
Gerard J. Kleywegt
Federico Minneci
Jaina Mistry
Alexey G. Murzin
Bernardo Ochoa-Montaño
Matt E. Oates
Marco Punta
Owen J.L. Rackham
Jonathan Stahlhacke
Michael J.E. Sternberg
Sameer Velankar
Christine Orengo

KEYWORDS:

Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression