TITLE: GBshape: a genome browser database for DNA shape annotations
 
Many regulatory mechanisms require a high degree of specificity in protein-DNA binding. Nucleotide sequence does not provide an answer to the question of why a protein binds only to a small subset of the many putative binding sites in the genome that share the same core motif. Whereas higher-order effects, such as chromatin accessibility, cooperativity and cofactors, have been described, DNA shape recently gained attention as another feature that fine-tunes the DNA binding specificities of some transcription factor families. Our Genome Browser for DNA shape annotations (GBshape; freely available at http://rohslab.cmb.usc.edu/GBshape/) provides minor groove width, propeller twist, roll, helix twist and hydroxyl radical cleavage predictions for the entire genomes of 94 organisms. Additional genomes can easily be added using the GBshape framework. GBshape can be used to visualize DNA shape annotations qualitatively in a genome browser track format, and to download quantitative values of DNA shape features as a function of genomic position at nucleotide resolution. As biological applications, we illustrate the periodicity of DNA shape features that are present in nucleosome-occupied sequences from human, fly and worm, and we demonstrate structural similarities between transcription start sites in the genomes of four Drosophila species.

AUTHORS:

Tsu-Pei Chiu
Lin Yang
Tianyin Zhou
Bradley J. Main
Stephen C.J. Parker
Sergey V. Nuzhdin
Thomas D. Tullius
Remo Rohs

KEYWORDS:

base sequence
binding sites
dna
genome
hydroxyl radical
nucleosomes
nucleotides
cytokinesis
Synthetic Biology and Assembly Cloning
Mutagenesis
New Restriction Enzymes
Nucleic acid amplification
Nucleic acid modification
Nucleic acid structure
Polymorphism/mutation detection
Protein-nucleic acid interaction
Protein-protein interaction
Recombinant DNA expression
Recombination
Cell biology
Repair
Replication
RNA characterisation and manipulation
Computational Methods
Microarray Technology
Targeted inhibition of gene function
Ribosomes and Protein Translation
Massively Parallel (Deep) Sequencing
Targeted gene modification
Chromatin and Epigenetics
Physical and Biochemical Characterisation of DNA
DNA-Mediated Cell Transformation and Nucleic Acids Transfer
Nucleic Acid Enzymology
Genomics
Miscellaneous/other
Transcriptome Mapping - Monitoring Gene Expression