TITLE: ViPR: an open bioinformatics database and analysis resource for virology research
 
The Virus Pathogen Database and Analysis Resource (ViPR, www.ViPRbrc.org) is an integrated repository of data and analysis tools for multiple virus families, supported by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Bioinformatics Resource Centers (BRC) program. ViPR contains information for human pathogenic viruses belonging to the Arenaviridae, Bunyaviridae, Caliciviridae, Coronaviridae, Flaviviridae, Filoviridae, Hepeviridae, Herpesviridae, Paramyxoviridae, Picornaviridae, Poxviridae, Reoviridae, Rhabdoviridae and Togaviridae families, with plans to support additional virus families in the future. ViPR captures various types of information, including sequence records, gene and protein annotations, 3D protein structures, immune epitope locations, clinical and surveillance metadata and novel data derived from comparative genomics analysis. Analytical and visualization tools for metadata-driven statistical sequence analysis, multiple sequence alignment, phylogenetic tree construction, BLAST comparison and sequence variation determination are also provided. Data filtering and analysis workflows can be combined and the results saved in personal ‘Workbenches’ for future use. ViPR tools and data are available without charge as a service to the virology research community to help facilitate the development of diagnostics, prophylactics and therapeutics for priority pathogens and other viruses.

AUTHORS:

Brett E. Pickett
Eva L. Sadat
Yun Zhang
Jyothi M. Noronha
R. Burke Squires
Victoria Hunt
Mengya Liu
Sanjeev Kumar
Sam Zaremba
Zhiping Gu
Liwei Zhou
Christopher N. Larson
Jonathan Dietrich
Edward B. Klem
Richard H. Scheuermann

KEYWORDS:

metadata
herpesviridae
hypersensitivity
arenaviridae
bunyaviridae
caliciviridae
communicable diseases
coronaviridae
epitopes
filoviridae
flaviviridae
genes
genomics
paramyxoviridae
picornaviridae
poxviridae
reoviridae
rhabdoviridae
sequence alignment
sequence analysis
togaviridae
trees (plant)
diagnosis
virology
viruses
pathogenic organism
surveillance, medical
community
workflow
basic local alignment search tool
hepeviridae
bioinformatics